---
layout: post
tags: life-hacks
---

Friction warms hands and stops cars. It’s a force of nature, but it’s also a
force in life. Friction slows us down, keeps us stuck, and makes the easy things
hard.

_But friction is neither good nor bad. Friction is a tool._

## A thousand paper cuts

Friction hides in the little things. It’s the shoes I can’t find, the app I
haven’t deleted from my phone, the vegetables I didn’t prep. It’s why I run less
in winter, and why I'll do that thing "next weekend".

Friction makes the hard path harder and the easy path easier. And I, like water,
flow downhill.

## Harness friction for good

I've had a lot of success by simply making the things I want to do more of,
easier. Remove steps, clear the path, lower the bar.

- **Want to do a morning run?**
  - I lay out my clothes the night before
  - Shoes by the door
  - Start with something stupid-simple: around the block once
- **Want to eat better?**
  - Keep healthy snacks in sight
  - Keep a few quick recipes in the notes app on my phone
- **Want to read?**
  - Put the Kindle app on my home screen.
- **Want to practice?**
  - Leave the guitar out of the case.

I make the first step so small it’s hard to say no. Momentum does the rest.

### Build Barriers

I also try to make the bad stuff hard. Add steps, slow it down, put it out of
reach.

- **Want less social media?**
  - I delete the apps
  - Log out. Don’t save passwords.
- **Want less junk food?**
  - Don’t buy it
- **Want to spend less?**
  - Wait 24 hours before buying

I make the bad path bumpy so friction slows me down.

## My shortcut to writing

This site is a great example. My last rewrite used some really cool tech, but
the workflow was clunky. I had to write on my laptop, run a build process, push
to GitHub… Nothing particularly difficult, but I never wrote anything.

Now I use boring tech but I knock out a post on my phone. Less friction should
result in more writing.

Let's see! 🤞
